# Warren Dodd's Barista Image Portfolio
This is a repository of images showcasing my projects and experiences in coffee. These include pop-ups I've hosted, drinks I've made, and other relevant work.

## Creature of Habit - Pop-Up No. 1: Sunrise, Sunset
The first pop-up I hosted was the inception of my brand idea, and I focused on having an input on every detail as I could. The theme centered around the transition from Summer to Fall. As someone who suffers from seasonal affective disorder, I've always felt sadness when summer ends, mixed with a sense of dread for the coming fall and winter weather. I wanted this pop-up to celebrate the summer season and welcome in the new fall season. This is where the name _Sunrise, Sunset_ came from, and I hosted it on the weekend of the Fall Equinox, September 21 & 22, 2024.

I was involved in all the aspects of the pop-up including:
  - Coffee Selection
  - Creation of Drink Menu
  - Creation of Pastry Menu
  - Retro-fitting and plumbing a coffee bar
  - Creating and Sourcing ceramicware
  - Apartment layout redesign
  - Handmaking drink ingredients and garnishes
  - Building a brand for Creature of Habit
  - Screenprinting Merchandise
  - Drink order automation

## Coffee Selection
I hosted several coffee cuppings and drink testing sessions to dial in what coffees/drinks I wanted to serve. For the cuppings, I picked 7 single orgins from varying countries and processes to select 2 to serve as single orgin pourovers and espresso. I focused on choosing 2 coffees, 1 coffee being a sweeter & slightly more tradional tasting coffee that would cater to those who may not have as much of a developed pallette for black specilaity coffee. IU ended up choosing a washed bourbon/catuai/caturra from Honurdas that had a very nice sweetness with a delicated/rounded acidity I figured would tasted good to anyone with/without added milk. For the 2nd selection I wanted something more nuanced and bold, something a coffee nerd could appreciate. I selected an anaerobic/washed castillo from Colombia. This coffee was very bright with lime zest acidity that was balanced out by slightly yogurt like body/fermented vibe. 

## Creation of Drink Menu
From the start I knew I wanted to have a very comprehensive drink menu with several seasonal specials. Once complaint I've had about many cafes and coffee shops I've been to is the drink menu tends to feel clunky. Its littered with so many choices that are nearly always going to be servered on a coffee menu and they tend to just look too crowded/overwhelming. I was inspired by La cabras drink menu and how they've simplified alot of their milk drink titles, and I decided with the shear amount of drink I was serving to adopt this approach. I was very please with how the final menu aesthetic turned out. The seasonal drink selections were driven by the theme and easily acessible seasonal produce. I chose Sunrise to be a hot and warming drink to welcome in the start of the new fall season. The highlight of this drink was the cascara syrup that was homemade with warming spices. This was a different take on a typical fall spice/pumpkin spice drink since it had similar spices, but had added umami and acidity from the cascara flavor and lemon juice in the syrup. This was balanaced out by a homemade white miso oil. This is added to the milk before steaming to add salt and umami to the drink to balance out those sweet/acidic flavors. Finally, the milk was dusted with beetroot powder to give the aethetic of a sunrise in the latte art and finished with a spritz of orange blossom water. I also designed this drink to be optional served with hojicha instead of espresso for those who dont enjoy coffee as much. o chpse Sunset to be a cold and refreshing drink, a great ode to the hot summer months. I knew i wanted this to be an espresso tonic drink since its one of my personal favorite iced drinks, and I knew if others were encouraged to order it as a special they would enjoy it too. This drink highlights the more delicated sweetness/acicdity of peach. I felt that peach pairs really well with espresso and the botanicals/pithy bitterness of fever tree tonic water. The drink starts off with homemade peach nectar and orgeat syrup, and then layered with tomnic, a splash of pomegranate juice (also seasonal), and garnished with a homemade candied orange dusted in aleppo pepper. This drink was addictingly refreshing, with the a great balance of acid, sweetness, and sublte heat from the aleppo pepper. This could also be served with matcha in-place of the espresso. This was the most poplar drink. The final special was a nod to our brand, Creature of Habit. Riffing off of rituals and routines of my childhood, I landed on the idea of the pb&j. A lunch I sinkenly ate for years and never got tired of, something that brought me comfort, and something with a predicitble expectation. I expanded upon this to incorporate musadine grapes, an ingredient I've fallen in love with the past couple of years with its wild and bold flavor that was in its peak season. We made a muscadine jam without pectine that more resemebles a sauce that could be easier incorporated into a drink. The jam is mixed with espresso, peanut butter, and milk and is shaken to give it that slight edge of mouthfeel over a tradional iced latte. Finally it's garnished with a pretzel, another lunch snack from many of our childhoods (and perhaps adulthoods).

## Creation of Pastry Menu
This was done in partnership with my mother, a vary talented home cook and baker. We brainstormed what pastries we could serve that we easy to prep for 2 days, easy to serve as single portions, and options that were unique and complimented the drink menu. We also knew we wanted to have a savory, a gluten free, and a vegan option. Our final menu included caneles (her personal special), a vegan sourdough focaccia with oranges, castelvatrano olives, and chili oil, a walnut & plain sourdough with homemade seasonal jams, and a gluten free almond cake.

##  Retrofitting and Plumbing a coffee bar
I knew to keep up with the volume for the cafe I need to optomize workflow during service. I decided to buy an old and keep antique kitchen island with a butcher block and turn it into a coffee bar. The bar included all my equipment; my Breville Dual Boiler espresso machine, a Eureka Mignon Silencio for grinding for espresso drinks, a fellow ode with SSP burrs for handpours, and a fellow stagg kettle. I designed the bar layout to match my wants in workflow and started to incorportate aspects that would increase efficiency and limit how many times I needed to step away. This includes plumbing my machines water reservoir and a pitcher rinser to an internal 5 gallon water jug with recipe water, a knockbox cutout, pluming the drip tray to the pitcher rinser, adding shelves for glass/ceramic ware/ other tools, adding a nearby automatic spigot to 5 gallons of recipe filter coffee water, and finally adding a mini fridge for milks and other ingredients

## Creating and Sourcing Ceramicware
I've always been intrigued by how the drinkware adds to the experience of the drink. I love when coffee shops take this into considereation when choosing their drinkware, and I wanted to do the same. To go along with the theme of making everything, I tried my hand at pottery to try and create sets of ceramic cups for the pop-up. I wanted control over the fine-tuning volume and thickness of the cup so I could get consistent drinks everytime. Because of this, I sthough slipcasting the mugs would be the best tool for creating very repeatable mugs. I designed a form I like, and then scaled it based on the type of mug I wanted. This ended up being a 2oz espresso, 4 oz cortado, 8 oz cappucino, and 12 oz latte sized mugs. In practice this ended up being a lot more challenging as slipcasting is very much an art and a science that takes skill and practice. The mugs didnt come up quite as perfect as I was hoping, but we successfully created 3 sets of the 4 mugs in varying glaze colors. As the dates for the opo-up got closer I decided to devote my energy to other planning aspects since the pottery was a huge timesink. In tandem with the mugs I made, I also sourced mugs and glassware from loveramics; a very reputable maker who does beatuiful work.

## Apartment layout redesign
With a bold invite list of 50+ people I knew I needed to turn my 1 bedroom loft into a functional and beautiful space that emulated a coffee-shop as much as possible. I wanted to do this on a budget and without getting items that would become waste after the pop-up concluded. I completely rearranged the floor plan in my living room to create as much open space as I could while including as many seats for guests as possible. From the redesign and  the addition of 2 small round tables that were either trash picked or bought second hand, I went from 6 available seats in my living room to 15 available seats.

## Handmaking drink ingredients and garnishes
Nearly everything ws homemade for the pop-up besides the milk and tonic water. This inlcuded all of the speciality drink syrups, juices, and jams. Through drink testing we were pleasantly surpirsed at how much more control with had of the flaocr profile of the drink and the overall quality with homemade ingredients vs. the store bought counterpart

## Building a brand for Creature of Habit
I've always desribed myself as a very habitual person. Throughout my life and my accolades, this is defined my personality and work ethic, for the better and the worse. As I've matured these past few years I've started to see more of the negative sides of being a "creature of habit" and have started to try and break that mould. That's where the name of this brand and my journey into the specilaity coffee indutry stems from. I've realised I have to put myself out there to new opportunities and be willing to fail and learn from those failures. Without being willling to break some of my habits I'll never grow. The name "Creature of Habit" is a nod to this, but also to the idea that we all have as humans have our rituals and habits that we live and die by. And luckily one of those habits for many is drinking coffee.

## Screenprinting Merchandise
For the first pop-up I wanted to create a unique experience and have something the guests could take as a memento. I was able to incorporate my hobby of screenprinted to burn screens with different treatments of out logo that guests could print onto an item of their choosing (i.e. shirts, hoodies, totebags, etc.)

## Drink Order Automation
To further streamline workflow and data collection, I created a drink order form with a google sheets that poeple could pull up on their phone from a QR code and order. I then formated a live excel sheet to populate the orders in real time with inportant specifics about their drink (i.e. temp, milk type, time of order, etc.) This helped me with not only keeping track of orders, but also workflow multitasking. Guests weere also able to go back and edit the form to leave feedback about their drink and the pop-up which auto populated on a seperate excel sheet. 
